one day this is how houses will be built
at least that's what the people behind
this unique project in Amsterdam hope
over the next three years they'll be
painstakingly creating life-sized
versions of these models they'll combine
to make a traditional Dutch canal house
but with a difference a
three-dimensional printer is making them
out of bio plastics derived from
vegetable oils what we can do is we can
print elements with the printer the
printer can print pieces of up to two by
two by three and a half which means that
it can't print the entire house but it
can print the elements which are then
connected together to make a room each
room when it is finished is tested on
the ground floor to make sure it's
stable and safe and only when that is
when that is the case and we can start
stacking them up until the house is 50
meters high and this is where the magic
happens this is the 3d printer where the
3d house is being made piece by piece
can you tell us a bit about what you're
doing yeah well today we're testing some
new materials they're based on the old
materials and they include some fibers
which increases the strength of the
material and also it helps with the
printing itself by giving the material a
better cooling properties whilst
printing 3d printing has already been
used for prototypes of things as diverse
as firearms and human organs but would
anyone really want to use this sludge to
make their home you'd be surprised in
the Netherlands and in Europe it's more
people with already existing properties
that are really interested in how can we
print interiors for instance but on a
global scale with a lot of interest from
people in disaster areas can we print
with a local centre for instance refugee
houses this is still clearly a work in
progress and this is what it will look
like when it's finished
but these visitors from Australia are
already sold on the concept of printing
locally to cut transport costs and waste
we have very high very high costs to
build in really remote locations and
this might be an answer for the future
and because it's so organically shaped
you could do things that were
sympathetic to the landscape and to the
Aboriginal peoples and whatnot yeah the
team say human creativity will never
disappear from the process but using
technology like this could one day be
the environmentally friendly way to put
a roof over your head
nadine barber al jazeera amsterdam